How to play ObHack-FreeDoom in Windows 10:

* Run `deng-1.8.6/deng-inst-1.8.6.exe` to install Doomsday
* ObHack does not have an installer. It has a directory, `ObHack-engine-697/`. In that directory is a file called `ObHack.exe`; run this file to generate the PWAD, putting the resulting `.wad` file in `C:\Doomsday` (the default location `deng-inst-1.8.6.exe` puts files)  Note that `ObHack.exe` is not standalone; it needs the contents of the `scripts/` and `data/` folders to run (`scripts/` has all of the Lua scripts which ObHack.exe runs to make the levels)
* In the folder `FreeDoom` is a file called `DOOM2.WAD`.  This is an IWAD file which is an open source replacement for ID software’s DOOM2, using new music, sprites, textures, sounds, and graphics. Put this in a place where Doomsday can find it, such as `C:\Doomsday`
* Run in `C:\Doomsday` the `Kicks.exe` file. For “Games”, select “Doom II: Hell on Earth”. For graphics, have 32-bit graphics at the native resolution of your monitor. For “misc”, uncheck the box that GLbsp needs to be run (ObHack comes with GlBSP), and increase the memory to 128 megabytes or higher (with only 32 megabytes, Doomsday 1.8.6 can crash when playing MAP31 or MAP32 in deathmatch mode with respawning monsters).  Maximize the screen. In the lower right hand corner, there is a long very short button which can barely be seen; carefully aim form and click this button to start the Doomsday engine.
* Doomsday/Kicks will search for and find `DOOM2.WAD`.  Click “yes” that this is the wad to use.
* To load a PWAD, reopen `Kicks.exe`, click on “Games” then “WADs”, and use the “Add” button to load up the PWAD generated by ObHack above. To make ObHack’s annoying Oblige level markers look less obnoxious, also add the `Watermarks.wad` file (in the `FreeDoom/` folder) as a PWAD after the ObHack-generated megawad.
* For people who want a modern WASD FPS interface, open up Doomsday, then hit “ESC” to bring up the menu.
* In Options → Gameplay, “Always run” should be “Yes”.  “Jumping” should be disabled; it’s cheating with ObHack generated levels.
* In “Hud”, it’s desirable to set up a cross-hair to help with aiming
* In Options → Control, go to “Forward”, hit “enter” to choose the option, then hit the “w” key
* Likewise, “Backward” is “a”, “Strafe left” is “a”, “Strafe right” is “d”, and “use” is “mouse button 2” (right click on the mouse to choose this option)
* In Options → Mouse, turn on “Mouse look”

At this point, it’s possible to start playing a megawad in ObHack FreeDoom. Some other points:

* The music is optimized for Microsoft’s (actually Roland’s) built in 3-megabyte sound font for converting .MIDI and .MUS files in to playable music. ObHack FreeDoom can sound nice with an open source (and, yes, larger) sound font, but there are issues, such as the guitar in MAP09 sounding off, and the organ in some maps distorting with other sound fonts.
* The `DOOM2.WAD` works nicely with other source ports. It’s best to play in a graphics accelerated source port, such as prboom-plus-2.5.1.4, but it can work even in Chocolate Doom (albeit as a degraded experience; note that the default ObHack-generated levels are *not* Chocolate compatible; use smaller indoor levels with Chocolate Doom)
* I have had issues with newer versions of Doomsday not cooperating with FreeDoom. I haven’t tested with Doomsday since 2015.
* There is a built in short demo. This is only here so that ObHack FreeDoom doesn’t crash in Chocolate Dooom.

Linux users and Macintosh users have the entire source code, and can port and compile programs as needed to run ObHack and a FreeDoom-compatible Doom source port. There is even a script which compiles ObHack in CentOS 7 in the Git tree, and compile instructions at the bottom of `README.md`.  
