# My fork of FreeDoom

This is my personal fork of FreeDoom which I have been maintaining since
2008.  The purpose of this fork is to make a version of FreeDoom which
takes as little space as possible, while giving me a compelling gaming
experience.

The name of this fork is `ObHack FreeDoom`, and it is designed to be
used with ObHack.

# Design goals

* Small size
* Optimized to run well in Doomsday 1.8.6
* Compatible with Chocolate Doom and other source ports

Here is how I achieve these goals

## Small size

I have, with four exceptions, replaced all of the levels with tiny
“instant exit” placeholder levels.  This minimizes the amount of
space the wad takes; people who wish more levels can use ObHack
to generate a 32-map megawad.  The four levels are:

* MAP01, an older version of FreeDoom’s MAP02
* MAP02, which is FreeDoom’s MAP02
* MAP12, an ObHack generated map
* MAP32, a deathmatch map from this [discussion thread](https://www.doomworld.com/forum/topic/90524-rework-in-freedm-maps/)

All of the other levels are copies of the same placeholder level, giving
this megawad all of five unique levels.

The reason why we have the one randomly generated map is so the built 
in demo works.

## Optimized for Doomsday 1.8.6

This megawad is designed to run well in Doomsday 1.8.6.  FreeDoom 0.7
is the last version of FreeDoom which does not crash in Doomsday 1.8.6;
this megawad, as a result, is a fork of FreeDoom 0.7 with some updates
from newer versions of FreeDoom, some of the improved monster sprites
and some of the newer music.  I have also updated the title screen,
to make it clear this is *not* in any way an official FreeDoom release.

## The included music

Since there was a bug in FreeDoom 0.7 where a lot of the music had long
silent pauses (lasting well over a minute at times), I have updated
the music, either editing the song to no longer have a lot of silence
(MAP09 now has a drum solo, and MAP21 now has a drum and bass solo),
replacing the music with newer music from FreeDoom (done in MAP08,
MAP15 -- while MAP15 has no issues with silence, I much prefer the more
upbeat newer FreeDoom theme, MAP22, MAP25, and MAP28) or using music
from another level (MAP26 now uses the same theme as MAP06).

With Doomsday 1.8.6, it’s better to use a MUS file instead of a MIDI
file whenever possible; the only MIDI files in the megawad are ones
with both have no issues playing back in Doomsday 1.8.6 and which
do not cleanly covert to MUS format (MAP09, MAP11, MAP14, MAP20, MAP21, 
and MAP23).

Since Doomsday uses Microsoft Windows’s native MIDI synth (a GS
emulation wavetable synth licensed from Roland, buried very deeply in
Windows in the file `gm.dls`), this is the expected playback device for
MIDI files.  The music files can also sound very good using an open
source stack, such as [Fluid Synth](http://www.fluidsynth.org/) with 
either
[Tim’s 6 megabyte full sound font](http://www.timbrechbill.com/saxguru/Timidity.php) 
or
[Frank Wen’s Fluid sound font](https://packages.debian.org/search?keywords=fluid-soundfont-gm).

## Chocolate Doom compatibility

This `DOOM2.WAD` file is compatible with Chocolate Doom, and should work
with any other Doom source port from this century.  Note that while the
music plays with Chocolate Doom’s default FM synth, the included music
files are not optimized for this synth.  To have good music, open up the
Chocolate-doom-setup program, go to “configure sound”, and use either
`GUS` or `Native MIDI` as the music playback device.

The reason why `DOOM2.WAD` includes a very short demo is so this wad does
not crash in Chocolate Doom.

Note that, while none of the maps included in `DOOM2.WAD` have issues in
Chocolate Doom, the maps generated by ObHack using the default settings
do have issues (e.g. the `MAP01` made when using ObHack’s default seed
and settings has a very prominent Hall of Mirrors issue).  If using
ObHack with Chocolate Doom, it is best to play tiny indoors maps.

## Designed for ObHack

This wad, while a very short playable Doom2-like game, is designed to
be played with ObHack-generated wads.  ObHack is set up to, by default,
make a particular megawad which I consider to be the “canonical” default
megawad for this FreeDoom fork.  

By using procedural generation, we can have a large megawad using much
less space than a traditional hand-drawn megawad.
