THE DOOMSDAY ENGINE
===================
by Jaakko Keranen <jaakko.keranen@iki.fi>

$Date: 2004/08/20 21:28:12 $


INSTALLING
----------

If you're not familiar with compiling stuff in a Unix environment, see
the generic instructions in the INSTALL file.  Doomsday specific
instructions are in Build/COMPILING.


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

It is always a good idea to glance through the engine readme:
http://www.doomsdayhq.com/doc_readme.php

The Doc directory contains various documentation about the engine and
the available command line options.  The documents are also available
online: http://www.doomsdayhq.com/


REQUIREMENTS
------------

In addition to the libraries needed to build Doomsday, you will need
one or more IWAD files from a supported game.  For example, DOOM.WAD
from Ultimate Doom would be suitable.  If you don't own any of the
original games (Doom, Heretic or Hexen), you can always use the
shareware/demo versions.

You won't be able to play without an IWAD file!


MIDI MUSIC
----------

Doomsday can play MIDI music using a program of your choosing.  The
environment variable DENG_MIDI_CMD determines the command that will be
used when starting playback of a MIDI music file.

I recommend using MIDI only with sound cards that have hardware
support for playing MIDI music (e.g. SB Live).  Otherwise, it is
advisable to just disable music playback with the "-nomusic" option.

For example, the DENG_MIDI_CMD environment variable could be set like
this:

  export DENG_MIDI_CMD="aplaymidi -p 65:0"

The default program for MIDI playback is "timidity".  Note, however,
that music playback may become choppy since timidity does it entirely
in software.  It is best to experiment with different timidity
settings (e.g. buffering and process niceness) if you would like to
reduce the artifacts in software music playback.


GLBSP
-----

Beginning with version 1.8.1, Doomsday can generate glBSP data
automatically.  It is no longer necessary to run glBSP separately on
your WADs.

However, if you need it, you can get glBSP from glbsp.sourceforge.net.


ADDITIONAL RESOURCE PACKS
-------------------------

There is a wealth of additional resource packs for Doomsday on the
internet.  One starting point is Doomsday HQ
(http://www.doomsdayhq.com/).  I recommend also visiting the DHQ
Forums for the latest community buzz.

The must-have packs are the 3D models and detail textures.  Since MIDI
music is currently not supported in Linux, you might also wish to
download a music pack (e.g. http://www.sycraft.org/).

Since there is currently no Doomsday GUI launcher available for Linux,
you will have to make sure the resource packs get loaded yourself.
There are two ways you can load PK3s and WADs:

	1) Use the special automatic resource directories.  Let's say
	   you have installed Doomsday into the directory PREFIX.  You
	   will find the subdirectory share/deng/Data/ under PREFIX.
	   If you have a resource pack for jDoom, placing it into
	   PREFIX/share/deng/Data/jDoom/Auto/ will cause it to be
	   automatically loaded when jDoom is started (note the
	   capital "A").  Create the directory if it doesn't exist.

	2) Use the "-file" command line option when you start
	   Doomsday.  If you e.g. have the resource pack
	   ~/mydir/model.pk3, just use "-file ~/mydir/model.pk3".


RUNNING THE GAME
----------------

These instructions apply to the Linux version of Doomsday.

The default location for the doomsday executable is /usr/local/bin,
but that can be changed by providing your own prefix for the configure
script (see Build/COMPILING).

I recommend creating your own startup scripts for jDoom, jHeretic and
jHexen.  In them, you can specify any command line options you wish to
use.  Below is a simple example.

  #!/bin/sh
  /usr/local/bin/doomsday -game jdoom -file ~/wads/doom.wad \
      -userdir ~/doomsday/jdoom

Before running this script you will need to create the runtime
directory ~/doomsday/jdoom.  All savegame files, message logs and
other such files will be stored in this directory.


RUNNING A DEDICATED SERVER
--------------------------

You can give the option "--without-opengl" to the configure script if
you don't want to compile the OpenGL renderer at all.

Start the game as you normally would, but use the "-dedicated" command
line option.  This will make Doomsday run in a text-only console mode.
For more instructions on how to configure the server, see
Doc/Network.txt.

Brief instructions:

	1. Start with the "-dedicated" command line option.

	2. Configure the TCP (cvar "net-port-control") and UDP (cvar
	   "net-port-data") port numbers.  The TCP port is used for
	   accepting new clients.  The UDP port is used for data
	   traffic.  The default port number is 13209 for both TCP and
	   UDP.  This step has to be done only once because the port
	   numbers are saved into the config file.

	3. "net init tcpip"

	4. "net server start"

	5. The current map can be changed with the "setmap" console
	   command.

	6. The server can be stopped with the command "net server
	   stop".  If you wish to exit the program completely, use the
	   command "quit".

Even briefer instructions:

	1. Make sure you have already configured the TCP/UDP port
	   numbers.

	2. Start with the command line options "-dedicated -server".
