
                          Doomsday Engine Sources
                          -----------------------
                              January 8, 2005
                          (engine version 1.8.6)

                by Jaakko Keränen <skyjake@doomsdayhq.com>
                
                        http://www.doomsdayhq.com/
                       http://deng.sourceforge.net/


...........................................................................
RELEASE NOTES:

The Doomsday Engine source code is distributed under the GNU General Public
License (see LICENSE in the root directory).

The code in this package was used to build the 1.8.6 release.

The placement of some files was changed in 1.7.6; you shouldn't install
this package on top of a previous Doomsday Sources tree unless it's newer
than 1.7.6.

The source code is more or less in a state of disarray. This tends to
happen when you take three separate code bases and try to fit them
together. The files of the engine, many of which I've written myself from
scratch, are more organized but lack a coherent style. Things like function
header comments, variable naming conventions and the use of whitespace have
varied over time and been influenced by the various styles used in the
original Doom, Heretic and Hexen sources. You'll find that much of the code
is not very pretty.

...........................................................................
CONTENTS:

Source code and Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0/.NET build script for
- The Doomsday Engine
- jDoom
- jHeretic
- jHexen
- drOpenGL: Doomsday OpenGL Renderer
- drD3D: Doomsday Direct3D Renderer
- dpDehRead: DeHackEd Reader Plugin
- dpMapLoad: glBSP Plugin
- dsA3D: Sound routines for A3D
- dsCompat: Sound routines for DirectSound 6

Documentation

DLLs and Libraries
- EAX support DLL
- LZSS compression
- libpng LIB & headers
- zlib LIB, DLL & headers

Utilities (binaries)
- WAD compilation and extraction
- md2tool
- GNU Find

...........................................................................
REQUIREMENTS FOR WIN32:

Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0/.NET (or Microsoft Visual C++ Toolkit)
DirectX 8.0 SDK (or newer)
EAX 2.0 SDK
A3D 3.0 SDK (needed only for building dsA3D)
FMOD SDK (http://fmod.org/)

...........................................................................
ORIGINAL DOOM SOURCE CODE LICENSE:

    LIMITED USE SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

This Limited Use Software License Agreement (the "Agreement") is a legal
agreement between you, the end- user, and Id Software, Inc. ("ID").  By
downloading or purchasing the software material, which includes source code
(the "Source Code"), artwork data, music and software tools (collectively,
the "Software"), you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of this
Agreement.  If you do not agree to the terms of this Agreement, promptly
destroy the Software you may have downloaded or copied.

ID SOFTWARE LICENSE

1.      Grant of License.  ID grants to you the right to use the Software.
You have no ownership or proprietary rights in or to the Software, or the
Trademark. For purposes of this section, "use" means loading the Software
into RAM, as well as installation on a hard disk or other storage device.
The Software, together with any archive copy thereof, shall be destroyed
when no longer used in accordance with this Agreement, or when the right to
use the Software is terminated. You agree that the Software will not be
shipped, transferred or exported into any country in violation of the U.S.
Export Administration Act (or any other law governing such matters) and
that you will not utilize, in any other manner, the Software in violation
of any applicable law.

2.      Permitted Uses.  For educational purposes only, you, the end- user,
may use portions of the Source Code, such as particular routines, to
develop your own software, but may not duplicate the Source Code, except as
noted in paragraph 4. The limited right referenced in the preceding
sentence is hereinafter referred to as "Educational Use."  By so exercising
the Educational Use right you shall not obtain any ownership, copyright,
proprietary or other interest in or to the Source Code, or any portion of
the Source Code. You may dispose of your own software in your sole
discretion. With the exception of the Educational Use right, you may not
otherwise use the Software, or an portion of the Software, which includes
the Source Code, for commercial gain.

3.      Prohibited Uses:  Under no circumstances shall you, the end- user,
be permitted, allowed or authorized to commercially exploit the Software.
Neither you nor anyone at your direction shall do any of the following acts
with regard to the Software, or any portion thereof:

    Rent;

    Sell;

    Lease;

    Offer on a pay-per-play basis;

    Distribute for money or any other consideration; or

    In any other manner and through any medium whatsoever commercially
    exploit or use for any commercial purpose.

Notwithstanding the foregoing prohibitions, you may commercially exploit
the software you develop by exercising the Educational Use right,
referenced in paragraph 2. hereinabove.

4.      Copyright.  The Software and all copyrights related thereto
(including all characters and other images generated by the Software or
depicted in the Software) are owned by ID and is protected by United States
copyright laws and international treaty provisions. Id shall retain
exclusive ownership and copyright in and to the Software and all portions
of the Software and you shall have no ownership or other proprietary
interest in such materials. You must treat the Software like any other
copyrighted material. You may not otherwise reproduce, copy or disclose to
others, in whole or in any part, the Software. You may not copy the written
materials accompanying the Software.  You agree to use your best efforts to
see that any user of the Software licensed hereunder complies with this
Agreement.

5.      NO WARRANTIES.  ID DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, BOTH EXPRESS IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE.  THIS
LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. YOU MAY HAVE OTHER RIGHTS
WHICH VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.  ID DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE
OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, ERROR FREE OR MEET YOUR
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS. THE WARRANTY SET FORTH ABOVE IS IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER
EXPRESS WARRANTIES WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN.  THE AGENTS, EMPLOYEES,
DISTRIBUTORS, AND DEALERS OF ID ARE NOT AUTHORIZED TO MAKE MODIFICATIONS TO
THIS WARRANTY, OR ADDITIONAL WARRANTIES ON BEHALF OF ID.

Exclusive Remedies.  The Software is being offered to you free of any
charge.  You agree that you have no remedy against ID, its affiliates,
contractors, suppliers, and agents for loss or damage caused by any defect
or failure in the Software regardless of the form of action, whether in
contract, tort, includinegligence, strict liability or otherwise, with
regard to the Software.  This Agreement shall be construed in accordance
with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas.  Copyright and other
proprietary matters will be governed by United States laws and
international treaties.  IN ANY CASE, ID SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR LOSS OF
DATA, LOSS OF PROFITS, LOST SAVINGS, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL,
INDIRECT OR OTHER SIMILAR DAMAGES ARISING FROM BREACH OF WARRANTY, BREACH
OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, OR OTHER LEGAL THEORY EVEN IF ID OR ITS AGENT HAS
BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY
OTHER PARTY. Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of
incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion
may not apply to you.

...........................................................................
ORIGINAL HERETIC/HEXEN SOURCE CODE LICENSE:

    SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

IMPORTANT - READ CAREFULLY: USE OF THIS PROGRAM IS SUBJECT TO THE SOFTWARE
LICENSE TERMS SET FORTH BELOW. "PROGRAM" INCLUDES ALL SOFTWARE INCLUDED
WITH THIS AGREEMENT, THE ASSOCIATED MEDIA, ANY PRINTED MATERIALS, AND ANY
ON-LINE OR ELECTRONIC DOCUMENTATION, AND ANY AND ALL COPIES OF SUCH
SOFTWARE AND MATERIALS. BY OPENING THIS PACKAGE, INSTALLING, AND/OR USING
THE PROGRAM AND ANY SOFTWARE PRGRAMS INCLUDED WITHIN, YOU ACCEPT THE TERMS
OF THIS LICENSE WITH ACTIVISION, INC. ("ACTIVISION").

LIMITED USE LICENSE. Subject to the conditions described below, Activision
grants you the non- exclusive, non-transferable, limited right and license
to install and use one copy of this Program solely and exclusively for your
personal use. All rights not specifically granted under this Agreement are
reserved by Activision and, as applicable, Activision's licensors. This
Program is licensed, not sold, for your use. Your license confers no title
or ownership in this Program and should not be construed as a sale of any
rights in this Program.

LICENSE CONDITIONS.
You shall not:

o  	Exploit this Program or any of its parts commercially.

o  	Use this Program, or permit use of this Program, on more than one
	computer, computer terminal, or workstation at the same time.

o  	Make copies of this Program or any part thereof, or make copies of
	the materials accompanying this Program.

o  	Use the program, or permit use of this Program, in a network,
	multi-user arrangement or remote access arrangement, including any
	online use, except as otherwise explicitly provided by this
	Program.

o  	Sell, rent, lease or license any copies of this Program, without
	the express prior written consent of Activision.

o  	Remove, disable or circumvent any proprietary notices or labels
	contained on or within the Program.

OWNERSHIP.  All title, ownership rights and intellectual property rights in
and to this Program and any and all copies thereof (including but not
limited to any titles, computer code, themes, objects, characters,
character names, stories, dialog, catch phrases, locations, concepts,
artwork, animation, sounds, musical compositions, audio-visual effects,
methods of operation, moral rights, any related documentation, and
"applets" incorporated into this Program) are owned by Activision,
affiliates of Activision or Activision's licensors. This Program is
protected by the copyright laws of the United States, international
copyright treaties and conventions and other laws. This Program contains
certain licensed materials and Activision's licensors may protect their
rights in the event of any violation of this Agreement.

PROGRAM UTILITIES. This Program contains certain design, programming and
processing utilities, tools, assets and other resources ("Program
Utilities") for use with this Program that allow you to create customized
new game levels and other related game materials for personal use in
connection with the Program ("New Game Materials"). The use of the Program
Utilities is subject to the following additional license restrictions:

o       You agree that, as a condition to your using the Program Utilities,
	you will not use or allow third parties to use the Program
	Utilities and the New Game Materials created by you for any
	commercial purposes, including but not limited to selling, renting,
	leasing, licensing, distributing, or otherwise transferring the
	ownership of such New Game Materials, whether on a stand alone
	basis or packaged in combination with the New Game Materials
	created by others, through any and all distribution channels,
	including, without limitation, retail sales and on-line electronic
	distribution. You agree not to solicit, initiate or encourage any
	proposal or offer from any person or entity to create any New Game
	Materials for commercial distribution. You agree to promptly inform
	Activision in writing of any instances of your receipt of any such
	proposal or offer.

o 	If you decide to make available the use of the New Game Materials
	created by you to other gamers, you agree to do so solely without
	charge.

o       New Game Materials may be created only if such New Game Materials
	can be used exclusively in combination with the retail version of
	the Program. New Game Materials may not be designed to be used as a
	stand-alone product.

o	New Game Materials must not contain any illegal, obscene or
	defamatory materials, materials that infringe rights of privacy and
	publicity of third parties or (without appropriate irrevocable
	licenses granted specifically for that purpose) any trademarks,
	copyright-protected works or other properties of third parties.

o       All New Game Materials must contain prominent identification at
	least in any on-line description and with reasonable duration on
	the opening screen: (a) the name and E-mail address of the New Game
	Materials' creator(s) and (b) the words "THIS MATERIAL IS NOT MADE
	OR SUPPORTED BY ACTIVISION."

WARRANTY INFORMATION.  THIS PROGRAM IS PROVIDED AS IS. ACTIVISION AND ITS
AFFILIATES MAKE NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, AND NO OTHER REPRESENTATIONS OR
CLAIMS OF ANY KIND SHALL BE BINDING ON OR OBLIGATE ACTIVISION OR ITS
AFFILIATES.

LIMITATION ON DAMAGES.  IN NO EVENT WILL ACTIVISION OR ANY AFFILIATES OF
ACTIVISION BE LIABLE FOR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
RESULTING FROM POSSESSION, USE OR MALFUNCTION OF THE PROGRAM, INCLUDING
DAMAGES TO PROPERTY, LOSS OF GOODWILL, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION AND,
TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, DAMAGES FOR PERSONAL INJURIES, EVEN IF
ACTIVISION HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.
ACTIVISION'S LIABILITY SHALL NOT EXCEED THE ACTUAL PRICE PAID FOR THE
LICENSE TO USE THIS PROGRAM. SOME STATES/COUNTRIES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS
ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS AND/OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE LIMITAIONS AND/OR
EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY
GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS, AND YOU MAY HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY
FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION.

TERMINATION. Without prejudice to any other rights of Activision, this
Agreement will terminate automatically if you fail to comply with its terms
and conditions. In such event, you must destroy all copies of this Program
and all of its component parts.

U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS. The Program and documentation have been
developed entirely at private expense and are provided as "Commercial
Computer Software" or "restricted computer software." Use, duplication or
disclosure by the U.S. Government or a U.S. Government subcontractor is
subject to the restrictions set forth in subparagraph (c)(1) (ii) of the
Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clauses in DFARS
252.227-7013 or as set forth in subparagraph (c) (1) and (2) of the
Commercial Computer Software Restricted Rights clauses at FAR 52.227-19, as
applicable. The Contractor/Manufacturer is Activision, Inc., 3100 Ocean
Park Boulevard, Santa Monica, California 90405.

INJUNCTION. Because Activision would be irreparably damaged if the terms of
this Agreement were not specifically enforced, you agree that Activision
shall be entitled, without bond, other security or proof of damages, to
appropriate equitable remedies with respect to breaches of this Agreement,
in addition to such other remedies as Activision may otherwise have under
applicable laws.

INDEMNITY.  You agree to indemnify, defend and hold Activision, its
partners, affiliates, licensors, contractors, officers, directors,
employees and agents harmless from all damages, losses and expenses arising
directly or indirectly from your acts and omissions to act in using the
Product pursuant to the terms of this Agreement

MISCELLANEOUS. This Agreement represents the complete agreement concerning
this license between the parties and supersedes all prior agreements and
representations between them. It may be amended only by a writing executed
by both parties. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be
unenforceable for any reason, such provision shall be reformed only to the
extent necessary to make it enforceable and the remaining provisions of
this Agreement shall not be affected. This Agreement shall be construed
under California law as such law is applied to agreements between
California residents entered into and to be performed within California,
except as governed by federal law and you consent to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the state and federal courts in Los Angeles, California.


